README.md, before:

# ![Scale-Up Velocity](./readme-files/logo-main.png) Final 1 - URL shortner 📎

In this project you will create your own [URL shortener](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/URL_shortening)!

This repository includes a basic template that looks like this (no styling):

[URL shortner](./readme-files/basic-todo.gif)

## Instructions

- Fork this repository into your account. Make sure to select the **public** option ⑂
- Clone your new repository to your computer 🖥
- Install the project dependencies by running `npm install` from the vscode terminal `ctrl + j` (make sure you are in the correct directory) 📂
- [Create a new branch](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/managing-branches) named `dev` or any other name you desire (that makes sense).
- Make changes to the code to meet the project requirements 📝
- [Commit Early, Push Often](https://www.worklytics.co/commit-early-push-often/) - your work will be evaluated by your push history 📖
- Good Luck! 🤘

## Running tests

We have created automated tests for your convenience, use it to check your progression.

Note that the automated tests rely on your code having the exact class names, Ids and objects structures as specified below.

To run the tests locally simply run `npm run test` in the terminal

Note that each commit to `main` branch will trigger a github [action](https://docs.github.com/en/actions). You can easily see the action tests result on each commit:

![Commits test](./readme-files/commit-tests.png)

## Guidelines

- Create a route `/api/shorturl/` in your `express` app that will handle all url shortening requests. (We recommend using [express Router](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html))

- Use a single JSON file as your DB

- [Serve](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/static-files.html) your client files from your server at route `/`

- Style and change `index.html` as you wish. You can take inspiration from this [example](https://www.shorturl.at/)

<!-- - The Todo list should have two sections: _Control_ section and _View_ section
- The _Control_ section is where the user adds his todo task and priority, and should have three elements:
  - [\<input\>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input) with id `text-input`.
  - [\<select\>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/select) with id `priority-selector` (options will be: 1-5).
  - [\<button\>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/button) with id `add-button`.
- The _View_ section is where we display the list of added todo tasks and data. The list should start empty and each added todo should be inserted to the end of the list.
- After the user clicks on the 'add' button, the todo input field should be "reset"
- Every todo item should have a "container" div with class `todo-container` that will contain 3 sub-elements:

  - An element with a class `todo-text` with the text of the todo task
  - An element with a class `todo-created-at` that will hold the creation time of the task in a [SQL format](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_dates.asp#:~:text=SQL%20Date%20Data%20Types&text=DATE%20%2D%20format%20YYYY%2DMM%2D,YEAR%20%2D%20format%20YYYY%20or%20YY)
  - An element for showing the numeric priority value of the task, with a class `todo-priority`

  Good way 👍🏿:

  ```
    <div class="todo-container">
      <div class="todo-priority">
        1
      </div>
      <div class="todo-created-at">
        2020-06-18 11:51:12
      </div>
      <div class="todo-text">
        the todo text
      </div>
    </div>
  ```

  Bad way 👎🏿:

  ```
    <div class="todo-container">
      <div class="todo-priority">
        1
      </div>
      <div class="todo-created-at">
        2020-06-18 11:51:12
      </div>
      <div class="todo-text">
        <span>the todo text</span>
      </div>
    </div>
  ```

- Add a counter element to reflect the **current** number of todos stored in the app. This element should have an id of `counter`.

- Add a button with id `sort-button`. Clicking this element should resort the todo list by their todos priority (DESC)

  ![alt text](./readme-files/todo.gif)

- **Make your todo-list persistent!**

  Save your todo-list as JSON (see `todo-list-example.json`) and store it in a persistent way, you have to options:

  1. Use the `localStorage` browser api to save / load the todo-list JSON **with the 'my-todo' key**. This option will make it persist between _page reloads_.

  2. Use the [jsonbin.io](https://jsonbin.io/) service api (using async/await fetch GET & PUT requests) to save / load your todo-list JSON. This option will make it persist across _devices and browsers_.

**Note** You can add extra properties to the todo objects in the JSON that you want to be persistent. -->

## Requirements

- Copy the functionality of [this] FCC example (and **all** use cases)

- Add another route `api/statistic/:shorturl-id` that will retrieve statistics for a given `shorturl-id`:

  - `creationDate` - SQLDate
  - `redirectCount` - number
  - `originalUrl` - string
  - `shorturl-id` - string

- Fully test your `express` app with `jest` and `supertest`. Test each end point response **including** error responses.

  Use a separate DB for your tests. _Hint: use [Environment variables](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/environment-variables)_

## Bonus

- Add any feature you desire. Some ideas:
  - Custom short URL. Support optional `shorturl-id` parameter in your `POST` request. Pay attention to error handling.
  - Serve a styled statistics dashboard instead of the default JSON statistics.
  - use dear [`JSONBIN.io`](https://jsonbin.io/) as your DB instead of JSON files.
- For added value, you can add supertest/puppeteer test to test any bonus feature you implemented

**Add an explanation in `README.md` for each bonus feature you add and a link to any resource you used**

## Grading policy

- Your project will be graded by the number of automatic tests you pass
- Using jsonbin.io
- Extra freestyle features - Please add an explanation about the bonus features you added to the readme.md
- new jest/puppeteer test
- Code quality and style: indentation, Meaningful and non-disambiguate variable names, Comments documentation
- Visual creativity, use css to make this app look awesome 💅🏿
- Division to reusable functions, no code duplication
- Git usage: meaningful commit messages, small commits, folder and file structures

## Submitting

- Change this file (README.md) and style it to showcase your solution (gifs, explanations, link to the github page, links to resources you used, etc...)
- Submit your solution repo to the [ChallengeMe](http://challengeme.suvelocity.org/) system
- Submit your repo link and github page and video to Google Classroom
- Record a 5-10 min selfie video, describe yourself in a few words (age, location, military background, technological background). Also, talk about the solution you submitted (try to explain how your app works in general and which bonuses you added). Think about this video as an interview.

GOOD LUCK!

Commit message:

added repl.it and submmiting instructions

README.md, after:

# ![Scale-Up Velocity](./readme-files/logo-main.png) Final 1 - URL shortner 📎

In this project you will create your own [URL shortener](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/URL_shortening)!

This repository includes a basic template that looks like this (no styling):

[URL shortner](./readme-files/basic-todo.gif)

## Instructions

- Fork this repository into your account. Make sure to select the **public** option ⑂
- Clone your new repository to your computer 🖥
- Install the project dependencies by running `npm install` from the vscode terminal `ctrl + j` (make sure you are in the correct directory) 📂
- [Create a new branch](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/managing-branches) named `dev` or any other name you desire (that makes sense).
- Make changes to the code to meet the project requirements 📝
- [Commit Early, Push Often](https://www.worklytics.co/commit-early-push-often/) - your work will be evaluated by your push history 📖
- Good Luck! 🤘

## Running tests

We have created automated tests for your convenience, use it to check your progression.

Note that the automated tests rely on your code having the exact class names, Ids and objects structures as specified below.

To run the tests locally simply run `npm run test` in the terminal

Note that each commit to `main` branch will trigger a github [action](https://docs.github.com/en/actions). You can easily see the action tests result on each commit:

![Commits test](./readme-files/commit-tests.png)

## Guidelines

- Create a route `/api/shorturl/` in your `express` app that will handle all url shortening requests. (We recommend using [express Router](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html))

- Use a single JSON file as your DB

- [Serve](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/static-files.html) your client files from your server at route `/`

- Style and change `index.html` as you wish. You can take inspiration from this [example](https://www.shorturl.at/)

<!-- - The Todo list should have two sections: _Control_ section and _View_ section
- The _Control_ section is where the user adds his todo task and priority, and should have three elements:
  - [\<input\>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input) with id `text-input`.
  - [\<select\>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/select) with id `priority-selector` (options will be: 1-5).
  - [\<button\>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/button) with id `add-button`.
- The _View_ section is where we display the list of added todo tasks and data. The list should start empty and each added todo should be inserted to the end of the list.
- After the user clicks on the 'add' button, the todo input field should be "reset"
- Every todo item should have a "container" div with class `todo-container` that will contain 3 sub-elements:

  - An element with a class `todo-text` with the text of the todo task
  - An element with a class `todo-created-at` that will hold the creation time of the task in a [SQL format](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_dates.asp#:~:text=SQL%20Date%20Data%20Types&text=DATE%20%2D%20format%20YYYY%2DMM%2D,YEAR%20%2D%20format%20YYYY%20or%20YY)
  - An element for showing the numeric priority value of the task, with a class `todo-priority`

  Good way 👍🏿:

  ```
    <div class="todo-container">
      <div class="todo-priority">
        1
      </div>
      <div class="todo-created-at">
        2020-06-18 11:51:12
      </div>
      <div class="todo-text">
        the todo text
      </div>
    </div>
  ```

  Bad way 👎🏿:

  ```
    <div class="todo-container">
      <div class="todo-priority">
        1
      </div>
      <div class="todo-created-at">
        2020-06-18 11:51:12
      </div>
      <div class="todo-text">
        <span>the todo text</span>
      </div>
    </div>
  ```

- Add a counter element to reflect the **current** number of todos stored in the app. This element should have an id of `counter`.

- Add a button with id `sort-button`. Clicking this element should resort the todo list by their todos priority (DESC)

  ![alt text](./readme-files/todo.gif)

- **Make your todo-list persistent!**

  Save your todo-list as JSON (see `todo-list-example.json`) and store it in a persistent way, you have to options:

  1. Use the `localStorage` browser api to save / load the todo-list JSON **with the 'my-todo' key**. This option will make it persist between _page reloads_.

  2. Use the [jsonbin.io](https://jsonbin.io/) service api (using async/await fetch GET & PUT requests) to save / load your todo-list JSON. This option will make it persist across _devices and browsers_.

**Note** You can add extra properties to the todo objects in the JSON that you want to be persistent. -->

## Requirements

- Copy the functionality of [this] FCC example (and **all** use cases)

- Add another route `api/statistic/:shorturl-id` that will retrieve statistics for a given `shorturl-id`:

  - `creationDate` - SQLDate
  - `redirectCount` - number
  - `originalUrl` - string
  - `shorturl-id` - string

- Fully test your `express` app with `jest` and `supertest`. Test each end point response **including** error responses.

  Use a separate DB for your tests. _Hint: use [Environment variables](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/environment-variables)_

## Bonus

- Add any feature you desire. Some ideas:
  - Custom short URL. Support optional `shorturl-id` parameter in your `POST` request. Pay attention to error handling.
  - Serve a styled statistics dashboard instead of the default JSON statistics.
  - use dear [`JSONBIN.io`](https://jsonbin.io/) as your DB instead of JSON files.
- For added value, you can add supertest/puppeteer test to test any bonus feature you implemented

**Add an explanation in `README.md` for each bonus feature you add and a link to any resource you used**

## Grading policy

- Your project will be graded by the number of automatic tests you pass
- Using jsonbin.io
- Extra freestyle features - Please add an explanation about the bonus features you added to the readme.md
- new jest/puppeteer test
- Code quality and style: indentation, Meaningful and non-disambiguate variable names, Comments documentation
- Visual creativity, use css to make this app look awesome 💅🏿
- Division to reusable functions, no code duplication
- Git usage: meaningful commit messages, small commits, folder and file structures

## Submitting

- Change this file (README.md) and style it to showcase your solution (gifs, explanations, link to the github page, links to resources you used, etc...)
- Upload your code to [`repl.it`](https://repl.it/~):

  - sign-up (you can login with github)
  - in the side menu, click '+ New repl'
  - switch to 'Import from GitHub' tab and paste a link to your solution repo
  - wait for `repl.it` to download all your files
  - the click the 'Run' button at the top of the page
  - your app should launch in the `iframe`
  - check all is good and paste the link to your project in this `README.md`

    **Note** the link in the iframe is your new base URL so replace `http://localhost:PORT_NUMBER` with this url everywhere in your project

- Submit a link to your repo to the CRM.

GOOD LUCK!
